docs(review): Reviewed docs K8s X LB (#2327)
scaleway/docs-content: containers/kubernetes/reference-content/wildcard-dns.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Kubernetes service routing with wildcard DNS and ingress controller
  description: This page explains how to route external traffic in Kubernetes using wildcard DNS and ingress controller
content:
  h1: Kubernetes service routing with wildcard DNS and ingress controller
  paragraph: This page explains how to route external traffic in Kubernetes using wildcard DNS and ingress controller
tags: kubernetes load-balancer-service wildcard ingress
dates:
  validation: 2023-10-26
  posted: 2021-08-12
categories:
  - kubernetes
---

Kubernetes wildcard DNS refers to a DNS configuration that allows for routing any subdomain of a domain to a particular service or set of services within a Kubernetes cluster. A wildcard DNS record is usually indicated by an asterisk (*), for example: `*.yourdomain.com`.

Using wildcard DNS with Kubernetes has several advantages:

> - Without wildcard DNS, each time you deploy a new service and want to expose it with a domain name, you'd have to create a new DNS record. With wildcard DNS, any subdomain of `yourdomain.com` (like `service1.yourdomain.com`, `service2.yourdomain.com`, etc.) will automatically resolve to the IP address specified in the wildcard record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Without wildcard DNS, each time you deploy a new service and want to expose it with a domain name, you would have to create a new DNS record. With wildcard DNS, any subdomain of `yourdomain.com` (like `service1.yourdomain.com`, `service2.yourdomain.com`, etc.) will automatically resolve to the IP address specified in the wildcard record.
```

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [created](/containers/kubernetes/how-to/create-cluster/) a Scaleway Kubernetes cluster
  - You have `helm` installed on your local computer
  - You have a domain name
  - The service you want to expose is a `TCP` or `HTTP` one
</Message>

## Installing the ingress controller with helm

1. Add the Helm repository:
   ```bash
   helm repo add ingress-nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx
   helm repo update
   ```

2. Install the Nginx ingress controller using the helm packet manager:
   ```bash
   helm install nginx-ingress ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx \
     --namespace ingress-nginx --create-namespace
   ```

3. Verify the installation:
   ```bash
   kubectl get pods -n ingress-nginx
   ```

## Configuring wildcard DNS

1. Retrieve the ingress IP:
   ```bash
   kubectl get svc -n ingress-nginx
   ```
   <Message type="note">
      It may take a few minutes for the Load Balancer IP to be assigned.
   </Message>

2. Configure Wildcard DNS:

>    - Go to your DNS provider and add an A record for `*.yourdomain.com` pointing to the IP address of the ingress controller's load balancer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Go to your DNS provider and add an A record for `*.yourdomain.com` pointing to the IP address of the ingress controller's Load Balancer.
```

## Deploy a sample application

1. Deploy a sample application by creating a file `hello-world.yaml`. Below is a simple deployment and service example. Copy the content in the file and save it:
     ```yaml
     apiVersion: apps/v1
     kind: Deployment
     metadata:
       name: hello-world
     spec:
       replicas: 2
       selector:
         matchLabels:
           app: hello-world
       template:
         metadata:
           labels:
             app: hello-world
         spec:
           containers:
           - name: hello-world
             image: nginxdemos/hello
             ports:
             - containerPort: 80
     ---
     apiVersion: v1
     kind: Service
     metadata:
       name: hello-world
     spec:
       ports:
       - port: 80
       selector:
         app: hello-world
     ```

2. Apply the configuration with `kubectl apply -f hello-world.yaml`

## Create an ingress resource

> 1. Create an ingress resource. Create a YAML file called `wildcard-ingress.yaml`. Copy the following sample resource in the file and save it. Remember to edit the domain name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Copy the following sample resource and paste and save it into a YAML file called `wildcard-ingress.yaml`. Remember to replace the domain name with your own.
```
